<!-- NAV START -->
Previous Chapter | [TOC](./) | [Next Chapter](./02.md)
<!-- NAV END -->

# Chapter 1: First Entry

Lu Jiangxian had a very, very long dream. He dreamed of planting rice in the fields, of the flash of blades and shadows of swords, of an immortal sect, a woman, and a great lake.

"Hand over the ⟨Supreme Yin Breathing and Qi Refining Art⟩ and the ⟨Essential Records of Moonlight Secret Decree⟩, and we will only cripple your cultivation."

A melodious yet icy female voice rang by his ear. Lu Jiangxian faintly saw a hazy face, but could see nothing clearly.

---

"Clang!"

A violent shaking jolted Lu Jiangxian awake.

Bizarre and kaleidoscopic colors surfaced in his mind. Lu Jiangxian wanted to open his eyes, wanted to get up, but his body ignored his commands completely, as if experiencing sleep paralysis.

Suddenly, a brilliant white light pierced through the dense darkness before him. Even though the darkness continuously surged forth like a tide, that pillar of light stood tall from beginning to end, eternal and unchanging like the sun.

Densely packed golden incantations burst forth from within, stretching their forms in the darkness, scattering across the sky like stars.

_So beautiful,_ Lu Jiangxian thought blankly.

The incantations multiplied until, as if reaching a breaking point, he heard a cracking sound akin to shattering glass.

The world lit up.

Lu Jiangxian saw a sky as vast and cerulean as the ocean, and a dense, boundless primeval forest. Not far away was a small crescent-shaped lake. In that direction, a streak of white light slipped into the shimmering waters of the little lake.

Below sat a small cluster of huts with straw-thatched roofs and stretches of rice paddies.

Within his violently tumbling perspective, he was like a weightless finch flying over the small, earthy-yellow village and its hearth smoke, gliding high above a clear stream.

In a fleeting glance, Lu Jiangxian caught sight of his own reflection in the stream.

_It seems to be a round, sparkling object,_ Lu Jiangxian thought in bewilderment, as a faint premonition surfaced in his mind.

_Am I no longer human?_

"Splash!" The violent shaking struck again. Lu Jiangxian rapidly sank into the water. The stream was too shallow to dissipate all the impact force, and so he lightly struck against a bluestone at the riverbed.

This collision made Lu Jiangxian feel as if someone had punched him in the chest, leaving him feeling stifled and short of breath. However, utilizing the surging river water and the recoil of the impact, his body steadily flipped over to face upwards, directly toward the sun rippling on the surface of the river.

_Was I not pulling an all-nighter in my rented apartment revising a proposal?_

Lu Jiangxian silently watched the sun upon the river surface. The water flowed rapidly, causing the patterns of light on the riverbed to constantly writhe.

Silently recalling his past memories, Lu Jiangxian's head throbbed relentlessly. He only remembered collapsing in exhaustion onto his bed, the smoke and the glow of neon lights in his rented apartment weaving past him.

He had opened a bottle of beer and sat before the dim computer desk. As a world-spinning bout of vertigo arose, he felt his heart beating rapidly and breathing gradually becoming difficult.

_It seems I... died?_

_This is quite fine as well. No need to worry about the future, no need to worry about life._

This thought, perhaps born from long-suppressed feelings, fluttered through his mind. He even felt somewhat elated.

He observed his surroundings. Above his head were the dark green canopies of trees with hanging aerial roots. Occasionally, nimble fish swam quickly past his face, accompanied by the faint, tinkling sound of splashing water.

Lu Jiangxian sighed.

_Except, going on like this will drive me mad with boredom._

Thus, he blankly watched the sun slowly slip from overhead. The brilliant sunset crawled across the sky, and the waters beneath the treetops dimmed bit by bit.

During this time, two fish curiously circled back and forth around him, and a crab even attempted to flip him over.

It was not until the moon moved above the treetops and the clear, bright moonlight drifted softly onto the river surface that Lu Jiangxian felt, to his pleasant surprise, a cool and refreshing breath permeate to the riverbed, bringing with it a faint sense of comfort.

Watching the moonlight gather bit by bit above his body, seemingly coming alive to form a pale white lunar halo, Lu Jiangxian was utterly astounded, his state of mind changing drasticly.

_What is this? Absorbing the essence of the sun and moon? Are there truly immortals in this world, along with miraculous divine abilities, demons, ghosts, and deities?_ he thought in shock. _Then what have I become? An artifact spirit?_

A surge of curiosity and joy arose deep within Lu Jiangxian's heart. That touch of lunar halo seemed to have accumulated enough power, drifting down upon his body.

He only felt a chill spread across his entire form before sinking into a meditative state, hovering between sleep and wakefulness.

He knew not how much time had passed. As the currents of qi grew increasingly thin, Lu Jiangxian suddenly awakened. The crescent moon had already faded from the sky, replaced by the sun peeking over the treetops, scattering warm morning light across the river surface.

_So fast._

Lu Jiangxian was overjoyed. Upon careful sensation, there was indeed a faint current of qi lingering within his body, moving in a circular trajectory around his round edge.

Furthermore, as Lu Jiangxian concentrated his qi and focused his mind, he could vaguely see an ash-cyan mirror lying quietly at the bottom of the river, cushioned upon a bed of multicolored pebbles, with several swimming fish foraging nearby.

That river crab from before was digging in the mud to the side. The visible range was about one meter around his body, not quite clear, akin to watching an old cathode-ray tube television from his childhood.

_So this is the present me,_ Lu Jiangxian smiled bitterly. Then, he deliberately controlled the current of qi to stagnate at the center of the mirror, and the ash-cyan mirror subsequently emitted faint traces of luminescent brilliance.

_Aside from glowing, I have yet to discover any other use._

_First, I will properly absorb the lunar essence; perhaps there will be a qualitative change,_ he planned inwardly. _I do not know the material of this mirror, nor do I know how the outside world views artifacts possessing spiritual sapience. I must avoid being discovered by some immortal cultivator who might casually obliterate my sentience._

White birds stand still within the mirror, painted boats sail across the heavens.

<!-- NAV START -->
Previous Chapter | [TOC](./) | [Next Chapter](./02.md)
<!-- NAV END -->